My name is Stephanie MacKenney.
I am the primary PhysEd teacher and
athletic director at River Valley School.
The relationship that I am
primarily involved in is student leaders.
We meet Mondays during our Richmond block,
which happens at the end of the day,
and we have about 50 students,
50, 55 students
who, come weekly
and we hang out in hours.
And then which is just next door,
and we talk about things that we can do to
pump up the school
and get involved in the school
and interact with the classrooms
and the home rooms
and the different kids
that, don't always get to be on.
The sports teams are don't always get to
go on the field trips and stuff like that.
So, the student leaders are the kids
who really, really embody
the spirit of the school.
If you were looking to run
a student leader program at your school.
What we've done, with our student body
is we offered the opportunity
to everybody.
So with grade six, grade seven and eight,
everybody, it has a fair chance
of coming in
and being a part of student leaders.
You fill out a questionnaire so that we do
know a little bit of your interests
and where to possibly put you
if there is an opportunity that comes up.
So our questionnaire is, open again
at the beginning of the year.
We have that information. If
it turns into a little
bit more of,
I want to get out of school kind of thing,
then we have a very honest conversation
with the student.
But, majority again, of our kids
really do want to be there.
We have had bigger groups in the past
and smaller groups as well.
It just really depends on the year.
With having the application
form, it also allows us to gauge
the interests of the students.
So say you were really keen
on helping out in the environment.
We do have a recycling team
through student leaders
that goes out into the school and collects
the recycling from the classrooms.
If you were really keen on volunteering
in the community, we have opportunities.
Within student leaders
to volunteer in the community.
We've worked
with, volunteering at the groups
that come into the school with the PSC.
So if there's a movie night,
we have students that come in and work
the door or work the admission or,
another opportunity
for something like that would be
we have, our drama production.
The kids would sell the tickets, and,
they would also collect the tickets.
If the students wanted
to stay in the school but still help out
with the school, at the end of the year,
we have the grade fives come in.
Right.
So the our student leaders are touring
our grade fives this week.
We do a Pump It Up Friday
where we have bubbles and chalk and music.
And just recently we did face paint.
So all the student leaders
were here bright and early,
and they set up the tables
and stuff like that
to help us get all that in order.
So before they even came
into the building,
when they came off the bus,
they got hyped up and they did
all the really, really fun stuff.
We've done school dances
where they are in charge of school dances.
So really, Student Leaders offers that
opportunity to just really get involved
and diversify your interest based on a
whole bunch of different things.
So whatever works for your school,
you could totally run with with the kids.
What ends up happening?
You have a sense of camaraderie,
that, hey,
I get to be the person to do this,
or for somebody
who wouldn't necessarily be
the person to be, oh, I want to do it.
I want to do it. I want to do it.
It allows them to be maybe with a friend
or by themselves, to still be a part
and be involved, but maybe a little bit
more behind the scenes
if they don't want to be
that front runner.
It allows the students to,
be all together in one spot
because again, we meet weekly,
we meet on again,
like I mentioned earlier, Mondays.
So it is one of those things
where we also take
attendance,
where we hold the students accountable.
It allows them to really gel
over the period of a year
because of that consistency factor.
Everybody knows everybody's name.
Everybody has a chance to jump
into something different.
And you really do see that pride
comes through by the end of the year,
because they do get to be involved.
They do get to be a little bit more
out there.
Right.
So it is, again, lots of fun, really good
energy, really good vibe.
Leaders is awesome.
I would say any school
should try in some capacity to do it.
Other schools might have, and saac
or student administrative council,
whatever you end up calling it,
but it really empowers the kids.
It really gives them a chance to step up.
It offers an opportunity to really see
that other side of the student,
which is really, really cool.
Again, you sometimes
have your standouts, but it's
those those kids that do end up just
it sounds corny, but blooming
or blossoming and really, really
coming into their own.
Especially if you have students
that have done it their whole middle
school career, going from grade
six, grade seven, grade eight.
There's a sense of ownership
that really kind of carries through.
So I would challenge
anybody to even even start small
or maybe even pick a specific event
and really just build on that.
So I've really enjoyed being a part of it.